

> You are a SRE engineer.
> 
> At what level? Depends. Are you a button pusher who knows the ins-n-out of various systems or you an engineer with a broader bigger picture view who gets things done. Our most senior DevOps engineers are architect level. They design and develop the platform to be immutable and highly composable. So they think of ways of automation that is seemless to the developers that scale. That includes defining governance on how code is developed. This isn't your typical DevOps SRE as they are heavy into the code base. Have a Python app? Well, we will build tooling that your API can read a swagger doc and bootstrap vault secrets and deploy with an API gateway by just filling out some configuration variables. You the developer don't need to worry about that, we will build the local tooling where you just run "make" and it creates everything. Want to deploy to AWS? Azure? OpenShift? Just fill out the variables. The tooling does the rest. These types of engineers are very rare. They build the platform that is simple for any new hire. Need a new feature like service mesh tracing? They'll add that transparently so you don't need to change your codebase. Just fill out some more variables. That is what architect level means. They always think, "I need to be able to deploy this whole shebang on my laptop so I can guarantee it can be deployed anywhere..... on premise, on Azure, or AWS. It will work with any integration from Splunk to DataDog. It can use gitlab or aws code commit. Just make it entirely flexible and transparent to new users and improve the DE (Developer Experience)." So they can develop faster. Need your code to PCI compliant and pass various tests? You guess it... Fill out some variables in your project repo. They take care of the rest. Because they already thought of those use cases way ahead of time. They architected those solutions because they had the foresight.  
    Business wants to do a drag-in replacement from AWS to Azure? you guess it, the whole system was designed to be portable and can use inhouse gitlab or AWS code commit.
> 
> These types of engineers are always in high demand. If you can explain what I wrote to hiring managers and demo that, you will have no problem getting a job at any top tech company. Demoing it is even better. Clone a git repo and see a whole CICD and platform built in minutes.

- https://www.reddit.com/r/ExperiencedDevs/comments/15foz97/im_an_experienced_somethingbut_just_what_exactly/